modules/02.install_k8s_kops.md, before:

# Installing a Kubernetes Cluster on Google Cloud Platform (GCP) with Kubernetes Operations (kops)

## Prerequisites

* Kubernetes CLI [kubctl documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
* Google Cloud SDK [gcloud tools documentation](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/)
* Kubernetes Operations [kops documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/blob/master/docs/install.md)

>Note: We will use the Google Cloud Shell which already has kubectl and gcloud tools installed.

### Exercise 1: Deploy kubernetes to GCP

1. Open the GCP console from your browser. [GCP Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)

1. Login and select the assigned project or create a new one from the top menu.

1. Enable (if not already) the Compute Engine API here [GCP Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/api/compute.googleapis.com/)

1. Launch the Google Cloud Shell from the top right menu.

1. Run the following commands to set the proper region and zone:

    ```console
    gcloud config set compute/region us-west1

    gcloud config set compute/zone us-west1-c
    ```
    >Note: Further commands will all be run in this shell.

1. Install kops

   Run the following commands to download and install kops:

   ```console
   curl -LO https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/releases/download/$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/kubernetes/kops/releases/latest | grep tag_name | cut -d '"' -f 4)/kops-linux-amd64

   chmod +x kops-linux-amd64

   mkdir -p $HOME/bin && cp kops-linux-amd64 "$_/kops"

   PATH="$HOME/bin:$PATH"

   echo 'PATH="$HOME/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
   ```

1. Create a state store

    Run the following command and replace `<unique value>` with your username or other.

    ```console
    BUCKET="kubernetes-<unique value>"
    ```

    ```console
    gsutil mb gs://${BUCKET}
    ```
    Here we are creating a GCP bucket to store the cluster configuration for kops

1. Create the cluster configuration

   Run the following commands.

   ```console
   PROJECT=`gcloud config get-value project`

   export KOPS_FEATURE_FLAGS=AlphaAllowGCE # to unlock the GCE features

   kops create cluster simple.k8s.local --zones us-west1-c --state gs://${BUCKET} --project=${PROJECT}
   ```

   >Note: This only created the configuration which can be viewed here:

   ```console
   kops get cluster --state gs://${BUCKET}

   kops get instancegroup --state gs://${BUCKET} --name simple.k8s.local

   kops get cluster --state gs://${BUCKET} simple.k8s.local -oyaml
   ```
   >Note: We can set a variable for the state store to make commands shorter:

   ```console
   export KOPS_STATE_STORE=gs://${BUCKET}

   echo "export BUCKET=${BUCKET}" >> ~/.bashrc
   echo 'export KOPS_STATE_STORE=gs://${BUCKET}' >> ~/.bashrc
   echo 'export KOPS_FEATURE_FLAGS=AlphaAllowGCE' >> ~/.bashrc
   ```

1. Building the cluster in GCE

   Run the following command and confirm the output

   ```console
   kops update cluster simple.k8s.local
   ```

   To proceed with the operation we need to confirm the command by running

   ```console
   kops update cluster simple.k8s.local --yes
   ```

   Validate
   ```console
   watch kops validate cluster
   ```

   After a few minutes the cluster will be ready and can be viewed from kubectl

   ```console
   kubectl cluster-info

   kubectl get nodes --show-labels
   ```

   ssh into the master

   ```console
   gcloud compute ssh $(gcloud compute instances list|awk '/master/ {print $1}')  
   ```

### Exercise 2 (Optional): Identify resources that have been created

1. In GCE Cloud Console find and investigate the following resources, that have been created as a result of previous exercises
    * Compute Engine -> VM instances
    * Compute Engine -> Disks
    * Compute Engine -> Instance groups
    * Compute Engine -> Instance templates
    * VPC Network -> External IP addresses
    * VPC Network -> Firewall rules
    * Network services -> Load balancing
    We will examine all created infrastructure in details on day 3.

---

Next: [Pods](pods.md)

Commit message:

This is a squash of commits from Daniele Camel and Barry Williams
modified inconsistencies or missing information for better step following

notated a few issues when stepping through module

modified directions for better clarity in steps

added small HINT for previous SSH session

added a hint to comment

reverted reviewed changes and modified steps to chain commands

added second .html file and additions to reflect changes with persistent volume

fixing rebase adding file

removed hint from step in tutorial, forces trainee to recall earlier cmds

rebased changes/modified instruction for viewing index page && removed whitespace/random characters

removed unnecessary hints && comments

removed second .html snippet

reworded and clarified some commands. Also removed unnecessary periods

updated installing k8s

renamed healthchecks file

modules/02.install_k8s_kops.md, after:

# Installing a Kubernetes Cluster on Google Cloud Platform (GCP) with Kubernetes Operations (kops)

## Prerequisites

* Kubernetes CLI [kubctl documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
* Google Cloud SDK [gcloud tools documentation](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/)
* Kubernetes Operations [kops documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/blob/master/docs/install.md)

>Note: We will use the Google Cloud Shell which already has kubectl and gcloud tools installed

### Exercise 1: Deploy kubernetes to GCP

1. Open the GCP console from your browser. [GCP Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)

1. Login and select the assigned project or create a new one from the top menu

1. Enable (if not already) the Compute Engine API here [GCP Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/api/compute.googleapis.com/)

1. Launch the Google Cloud Shell from the top right menu

    >Note: All following commands will be run in this shell

1. Run the following commands to set the proper region and zone:

    ```console
    gcloud config set compute/region us-west1

    gcloud config set compute/zone us-west1-c
    ```

    Check that gcloud config has been updated with values set above in section `[compute]`
    ```console
    gcloud config list   
    ```

1. Install kops

   Run the following commands to download and install kops:

   ```console
   curl -LO https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/releases/download/$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/kubernetes/kops/releases/latest | grep tag_name | cut -d '"' -f 4)/kops-linux-amd64

   chmod +x kops-linux-amd64

   mkdir -p $HOME/bin && cp kops-linux-amd64 "$_/kops"

   PATH="$HOME/bin:$PATH"

   echo 'PATH="$HOME/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
   ```

1. Create a state store

    Run the following command to create a bucket. Come up with a unique name and replace `<unique name>`. Please refer to the [GCP docs](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/naming) for appropriate bucket names.

    ```console
    BUCKET="kubernetes-<unique name>"
    ```

    ```console
    gsutil mb gs://${BUCKET}
    ```
    Here we are creating a GCP bucket to store the cluster configuration for kops

1. Create the cluster configuration

   Run the following commands

   ```console
   PROJECT=`gcloud config get-value project`

   export KOPS_FEATURE_FLAGS=AlphaAllowGCE # to unlock the GCE features

   kops create cluster simple.k8s.local --zones us-west1-c --state gs://${BUCKET} --project=${PROJECT}
   ```

   >Note: This only created the configuration which can be viewed here:

   ```console
   kops get cluster --state gs://${BUCKET}

   kops get instancegroup --state gs://${BUCKET} --name simple.k8s.local

   kops get cluster --state gs://${BUCKET} simple.k8s.local -oyaml
   ```
   >Note: We can set a variable for the state store to make commands shorter:

   ```console
   export KOPS_STATE_STORE=gs://${BUCKET}

   echo "export BUCKET=${BUCKET}" >> ~/.bashrc
   echo 'export KOPS_STATE_STORE=gs://${BUCKET}' >> ~/.bashrc
   echo 'export KOPS_FEATURE_FLAGS=AlphaAllowGCE' >> ~/.bashrc
   ```

1. Building the cluster in GCE

   Run the following command and confirm the output

   ```console
   kops update cluster simple.k8s.local
   ```

   To proceed with the operation we need to confirm the command by running

   ```console
   kops update cluster simple.k8s.local --yes
   ```

   Validate
   ```console
   watch kops validate cluster
   ```

   After a few minutes the cluster will be ready and can be viewed from kubectl

   ```console
   kubectl cluster-info

   kubectl get nodes --show-labels
   ```

   ssh into the master

   ```console
   gcloud compute ssh $(gcloud compute instances list|awk '/master/ {print $1}')  
   ```

### Exercise 2 (Optional): Identify resources that have been created

1. In GCE Cloud Console find and investigate the following resources, that have been created as a result of previous exercises

    * Compute Engine -> VM instances
    * Compute Engine -> Disks
    * Compute Engine -> Instance groups
    * Compute Engine -> Instance templates
    * VPC Network -> External IP addresses
    * VPC Network -> Firewall rules
    * Network services -> Load balancing

    We will examine all created infrastructure in details on day 3

---

Next: [Pods](pods.md)
